Hello, my friends. Hey. Um,
you guys are in the VIP room. We're going to start the live
stream to the Facebook group here in
just a moment. I am so excited for
this. Are you excited for this? Hello,
Rose. You're in the chat. Yes, the chat is open.
I'm going to be ignoring it a little bit, okay,
during, the live stream, but we're going to be coming back here
right after for your special VIP
experience. And, I've got a special guest coming
today, and most of the week we'll have special guests here too.
So excited that you're... Hey, hey, Yolande, Bun.
You guys are all here. Okay. I'm-- Not to be rude, but
I'm gonna
ignore you guys just long enough to get the live stream started, and then we're
gonna launch in. Make sure you stick around for that
second hour, because that's when we'll get into the
VIP part of this. Okay? Thanks for being here, by the way.
You guys totally rock.
This is exciting. Okay. If I can push all the
right buttons. I think I've got 'em.
All right, we're on Facebook. Go live.
Here we go.
Live video is starting.
I think
that's gonna rock and roll. Yep. We're live.
Hey, welcome. This is the Emotional
Freedom Challenge. I am your
host, Dr. Paul
Jenkins. I am a professional psychologist.
I've been doing this for about three decades, and I've got some ideas about
emotional freedom, all of which I'm gonna share with
you today. Well, over the next several days.
So let me give you a little sense of what this looks
like to get started. And,
what it looks like is we've got five days
together. We have a five-day challenge
every day at the same time, which is noon
Eastern. It's ten o'clock here in my time zone, in the
Mountain Time zone. I have
curated for you
a challenge course, really. So the, the course
will play out that I will come with
powerful principles of positive
psychology that have been proven,
proven to create peace in
your mind and heart, to create confidence
in your roles and relationships,
and to create hope
for even better things to come. That is what
we are all about, okay?
Um, and, and I've got five
specific,
installments of that, maybe we could call it that, as we get into the challenge.
So there will be a psychoeducational component.
I'm gonna share with you what I have learned and what I have
developed over, what, thirty
years of clinical experience now, and,
and you get that here in the challenge.
Every day we'll have a specific challenge task.
Now, here's what happens with the challenge tasks.
You can do 'em or not do 'em. If you want the benefit
from this challenge, do the challenge tasks, okay?
These are also curated just for you,
and in these tasks, we're going to build.
Okay, so today's challenge task, I'll get to that toward the end of our,
our session here, is a five-day
challenge. All right? Tomorrow we'll give you one that you can do
for four days, and then you see what...
It, it's going to build on, each other.
So the challenge that you'll get today, I want you to do all five
days, and so on and so on. Okay? Now,
when I say I want you to, it's not about what I want, it's about what you want, and
what you want is peace
in your mind and heart, confidence in your
roles and relationships. That includes your parenting role,
your work role, your influencer role, whatever it is you're
doing. And hope
for better things to come. That's the
deliverable. That is my promise to you.
I will provide everything that you need to achieve those
outcomes this week. Does that sound good to
you?
Your job is to show up
and lean in. Now, one other thing
I wanted to mention before we get started.
Um, the VIP experience, we do still have some
seats available. Those of you who are in the VIP experience, you're here
on Zoom with me. Everyone else who is
enrolled is in, the, the private Facebook group
where you've jumped in already. Um, if
you want to join us in the VIP experience, you can still
do that, and the way you get there is through the
Emotional Freedom Challenge. And remember, it's the
emotion... There's two Es in there, okay?
Theemotionalfreedomchallenge.com/getvip.
All one word, getvip. Um, we would
welcome you here. Now, what do you get in the VIP experience?
You will have access to all the
recordings.You will have an extra
Q&A session with me every day after the general session, and I'm
inviting some special guests to that.
So I think it's a really phenomenal,
offering, and we would welcome you if you wanna join us.
Now, having said that, you get all the
deliverables whether or not you join the
VIP. But if you will lean
in, if you will take this
seriously and take the challenges as we
go, my promise to you is that you can
achieve peace in your mind and
heart, confidence in your roles and
relationships, and hope
for better things to come. Okay? So let's jump
in. I am ready to get going here. And
here's where we're going to start.
Um,
come back with me, if you will,
a couple of decades.
And I can't believe it's been that long already.
I'm in the driver's seat. We're in the
minivan. All the kids are in the back.
Vicki's right over there. She's gonna fall asleep in just a minute.
We're on our annual pilgrimage
up to Seattle, Washington, where Vicki's parents
live.
And every year we make this little journey.
Well, usually I am excited for the
trip.
Usually, I can't wait to connect with family, to spend some
time with the kids and with Vicki, as we're heading up to
visit Vicki's parents. But this
year is different. This year is
different for me. I'm at one of the lowest
points
in my adult life. I am-- I'm in a
position where
in my business,
everything had fallen apart. A
busy outpatient psychotherapy practice has dwindled down
to almost nothing. I-I've made some
investments. Okay, I called them
investments then. Now, I know that they were gambles, but I didn't know
that back then. You only know what you know at the time, right?
And these investments have all gone south, like
seven or eight of them, significantly impacting
cash flow, morale. I--
Everything's crashing fast all around
me, and this is the position that I'm
in. My, my father-in-law,
Vicki's dad,
sent me a prepaid Visa card
so that I could put gas in that
minivan. How
embarrassing. How shameful. How
demoralizing. And I, I'm, I'm beat
up
personally, professionally. I'm
depressed, energetically
dead. I can't even show up
for my roles, my relationships. My confidence
is totally tanked.
Now, what do you do when life
breaks the psychologist?
What do you do when life breaks the psychologist?
And, and yet this is where I am
in my professional and personal life at the
time.
You know, one of my clients told me-- This was so wise.
I thought this was just impeccably wise.
Um,
"You know, Dr. Paul, there's two kinds of people on this planet." And I'm like,
"Well, I'm curious. I'm a professional psychologist.
Please reveal."
He said, "There are those who are
humble,
and there are those who are about to
be."
How cool is that? I mean, it's kind of funny, but it's
so true too. And my experience tells me that
occasionally life beats us
up. Occasionally,
we just get clobbered. In, chapter one of my
book, Pathological Positivity, chapter one is
titled Lightning Strikes, and this is where I
shared in my book
about this very event, about this, this time in my
life that landed me in a bankruptcy.
And we all have these, right? Welcome to the
planet. Life will beat us up. And I had been
humbled
through my circumstances
to a point where
I was open.
And you know how when the student is ready, the teacher will appear.
It was about this time that I met and
got to know and was honored to interview on my podcast
Mary Louise Zeller. Now, if you don't know
Mary Louise, she's an
octogenarian. Okay, now there's a ten-dollar word for
you. But this w-woman, this powerful woman in
her eighties,
a sixth-degree black belt in taekwondo.
This grandma can kick you to next Thursday.
And as I'm interviewing Mary Louise Zeller, the incomparable,
amazing master, she
leans forward and shares this with me.
She says, "PaulThe
troops are not
coming.
And then she said this, "We are
the troops."
Wow.
She might as well have kicked me.
I'm glad she didn't, 'cause that would've hurt.
But she kickstarted me
out of a place where I was
stuck, and she kickstarted me into this
realization of something that I'm going to be sharing with you in this
challenge this week,
and that had to do with my own
thinking. See, I was in a position where I was
waiting for the troops to come.
Have you been there? Have you been in that spot where you're thinking,
"Okay..." And this is exactly what I was thinking.
You guys, think about this for a minute.
This is our story
with my details. You with me on that?
with my details. What are your
details? What, what is
it
for you that represents that lightning
strike?
And, and here's, here's the realization.
Here I am
in some dark corner with my head wrapped in a blanket waiting for the
troops to come and rescue me, because I had told
myself, once the economy
changes,
yes, once those troops come, then, then I'm
gonna be okay. How long would I be willing to wait for the
economy to change? And I thought to myself, "When the insurance
companies figure out how to compensate
psychologists fairly, when those troops come, then, then I'll be
okay. I think I can hold out." Right?
How long am I willing to wait for the insurance companies?
Those guys that I invested with. Yes.
Yes, when they pay me back.
When those troops come, then I'll be fine.
And I'm sure they will as soon as they get out of
prison. That's probably the top thing on their list, pay back
Dr. Paul, right? How long am I willing to wait
for the troops to come? And yet,
there I was. See, this is the gift that Mary
Louise gave me when she kickstarted me out of victim
mindset. We're coming back to that
on Wednesday, okay? So I'm giving you a little precursor to what
we're up for. That kickstart
is what got me out of being trapped in
victim mode and establishing what I'm referring to in
this challenge as emotional
freedom. And it allowed me to
des- to design and develop
the positivity model, which has now
saved lives
and relationships all over the planet.
This came from that. Let me be
really clear here, and I'll, I'll
share with you what this is. We're gonna break that down today.
I've got my flip chart here ready to, to share this with you.
But I wanted you to know first, positivity wasn't the
plan. It was the
lifeline. And because positivity
saved Paul,
now Paul has been able to save
l- lives and relationships all over the planet. Okay?
And there's more to that story I'd be happy to share with you.
Positivity wasn't the plan. It was the
lifeline.
So what is this model that it gave to me?
Let's jump into that next. Okay? Now,
just a little note here. If you're in the VIP room
on Zoom, the chat is open. The
Q&A, I believe, is open as well.
Eh, the Q&A may or may, may not be, but the chat is, okay?
Um,
you can interact on the Zoom if you're in the VIP room.
On Facebook, go for it. You guys talk to
each other, and I, I've got Natasha over there that can help to moderate some
of the comments. Let's get those
conversations going, because I think the lights are gonna start turning on
for you. And this is to build up to
today's challenge.
So here's where we're going next. My job
as a professional psychologist is to illuminate
the obvious. Now, this is so cool, you
guys, 'cause I get paid to tell people things they already
know. But there are obvious things that are
completely unnoticed. Obvious but unnoticed.
Let's go there. Um, your shoes. Can you feel
them on your feet?
Now, now
because I mentioned it, your neurology is on.
You can feel your shoes, but your brain just ignores that.
See, your brain's job, y- two main jobs of your brain, to keep
you safe
and to prove you right. All right? Both of those get in
our way all the time. I just invite you to notice
that you can feel your shoes in this moment.
See, most of-What our brain is
doing for us on a daily basis is in that
realm. It's totally obvious. You're going to see it immediately
as soon as I call it to your attention. That's my job, okay?
Now, once I call it to your attention,
you get to do whatever you choose to do with it.
And I am not here to tell you how to think.
I don't have that kind of authority.
I want you to see that you are thinking,
and your thinking matters. You're going to see that as soon as I break into
this model, okay? So that's where we're going.
Now,
before we go to the model, I invite
you to notice also that you can
think
about your thinking.
Our thoughts are so powerful, and either we drive our
thoughts or our thoughts drive us.
So I invite you in this moment to notice-- And I call this
metacognition. That's a fancy psychobabble
word. We make up words in psychology.
It makes us feel smart, and this is one of them.
Metacognition. Cognition means
thinking. Metacognition is a higher
level. It's thinking about
thinking.
Turn it on
and notice that you can do it. Usually we just run through life
thinking, but we don't stop to think about our thinking.
I invite you to join me there today.
Think about your thinking. Turn it on
because
when we start to think about our thinking, that creates a space.
In that space
is where choice exists.
Awareness precedes choice,
and until you see it as a choice, it's not.
Okay, you're gonna see what I mean as we get into the model
today. So let's start
here.
On this line, I've written a phrase.
You've probably heard it, right? It is what it
is. Which can be kind of annoying
depending on who's saying it and why.
All it means for today and for our challenge
is the way things are
right now. It's, it's who you are. It's who you're
with. It's what you have. It's the
weather. It's the way your business is going.
It's how your relationships are stacking up.
It's whatever your kids are saying to you or doing.
It, it's the way things are without changing anything.
It is
exactly what it is right
now. Okay, now here's where we get to have some
fun. I'm a
psychologist. I'm all about
what is your brain, your mind... And those are a little different.
We'll get into that later this week.
What is your mind doing
with what it is?
So as you turn on your metacognition,
I invite you to notice
first
this process. I'll write it down here at the
bottom.
Evaluation.
Evaluation. Okay, this will make more sense if I put a
little context around that.
Come back with me
to that time
when I was in the minivan driving my family up to the
Pacific Northwest and on the verge of
bankruptcy, which a little later I wasn't even on the
verge anymore. I just fell right over the edge.
All right, it is what it is. And what it is is
bankruptcy.
Okay. What is your brain doing with that?
What was my brain doing with that?
Evaluation. Okay? And it has to-- Look, this
is like gravity.
It's a natural law. It's a principle.
You never get up in the morning and think, "Oh, I wonder if gravity's on
today." It tends to be
. So what happens if you jump from a tall
building?
You fall.
For sure or maybe?
Sometimes or every time? You see how gravity is?
And that's how these principles are. You can't turn this off.
Your brain has to evaluate,
and it's because of what I just said.
Your brain's main job is to keep you safe and also to prove you
right . Both of those create problems for
us, but it's the way we're
designed. I want you to understand whatever your brain
is doing is exactly what your brain is designed to do.
And what a gift, what a blessing that is
for a lot of reasons. All right. Now, I
use the word evaluation.
A more common word is judgment.
So check this out. Notice this.
You, dear friend,
are constantly judging.
Oh, you are. Yes. And I am too. Okay?
It's us. It's what hu-humans do. You judge
yourself
pretty harshly sometimes. You certainly judge your
circumstances, whatever that thing is that's going on in
your life.You judge your kids,
you judge your spouse, you judge your neighbors, your
friends, you judge your coworkers, you judge the
government, you judge the economy, you judge the
weather, you're judging me.
It's cool. I'm judging you
. I mean, we can't turn it off. We're constantly doing it
because our brain's trying to keep us safe.
So at a very minimum, it's like, well, is this safe or dangerous?
Is this good or bad?
Is this lucky or unlucky? Is this hot or cold?
Is this light or dark? Constantly judging.
All right. Now,
the word evaluation implies
comparison
with some standard. Okay, so check it
out.
It is what it is, and in our story with my
details, the story that I shared with you just now, it's
a bankruptcy. Okay, so what's my mind doing?
Is this good or bad? I don't know. I'll
check. Okay, and then our brain starts to check.
Well, what am I gonna compare it to?
Look, bankruptcy, can you imagine
anything
better?
We're gonna put that on the continuum.
Can you imagine anything better than
that? Not too hard, is
it? Yeah. Like,
no bankruptcy?
That would be
better, right? That's not what I
got, but I can imagine that. Now, what happens when I
take my bankruptcy, my what it
is... Let's see if I can stop knocking that out of the
way. And what if I compare it
to something better, like no
bankruptcy, like I'm financially solvent, like I'm
financially independent?
Okay, well, compared to that,
this sucks. And how do I feel? This
negative that I'm putting here is the emotional energy, the
feeling that I get when I compare what I got
to something better, I feel
worse. Are we good?
Okay, now this is not rocket science.
It is, in fact, psychological science, and that's a little
different thing. Probably more powerful, I'm
guessing. All right, now
,
how can I even talk about this? You know, it took a while.
It took a while for me to get to a place where I had some
emotional freedom
around my circumstance. Um, and let me
just share a little piece of that with you because Vicki and I,
my sweet wife
and I, were called to assist a group of
young people. We were, we were actually, in a
volunteer position to assist these young people in a
pioneer trek reenactment of the early
Western pioneers that came across the plains
pulling hand carts.
Now, I have pioneer heritage, and part-- that's one of the
reasons that we were selected to go as leaders for this group
of, of teenagers, basically, that were learning about their pioneer
heritage. And so one of the
invitations was to find someone in your family history.
Well, I got a bunch of them, a bunch of pioneer
ancestors, and so I was-- I easily found a
family. Now, just to give you the
context, the,
the family that I found
got to come across the plains in a hand cart
company called the Martin Handcart
Company.
Okay. Some of you are like, "Oh, I've heard of
that." Yeah, maybe you have. Martin, Willie,
those are some of the names that you can go look up to see how these handcart
companies fared. Well, they ran into some early winter storms,
and most of them died
before they got to Utah, where they settled.
This family of mine
had seven children, and they were
dragging them across the plains, and every morning,
this company
had to bury people. And by bury them, I mean lay
them out on the ground and kick some snow over them because the ground was so
frozen. They-- Every morning, they're losing
people.
All right, now, I share that with you because it changed something in
my mind.
I was busy thinking, "This is so
bad." It is compared to something better, and I
had this negative emotional energy around it.
When I did a little bit of research
about this family that is in my ancestry,
I realized, you know what? I know
exactly where my kids are sleeping tonight.
I know we're going to feed them. Even though we're in the throes
of a bankruptcy, I can find food for my
kids. Okay, do you see the
shift? Because check it out.
What if we take what it is? Now, notice what it is didn't
change. Still the same darn what it
is. And what if in evaluating
that, I invite my brain to consider... Let's see.
Where's my black one?That it could
definitely be
worse. Is that true?
Oh, yeah And as I did that pioneer research, I was like, "Oh,
it could be so much worse." Now, when I take my what it is, my
bankruptcy, I know it sounds
different already, doesn't it? And if I compare it to something far
worse,
like
losing people
to the cold weather and not being able to get warm or have any food or
sustenance,
then how do I feel about where I
am? Okay, now I'm going to put a plus mark over
here. Um, you guys, we hear it all the time,
right? Just think positive, which is so annoying
when you hear it from a motivational guru or speaker on the
stage. They don't even know about the
psychology behind why it even works,
and we do a lot of damage sometimes with what we call
toxic positivity, ignoring the pain and just pasting on a
smile and saying, "It's all good."
Well, meanwhile, we're just tormented inside.
That's not emotional freedom.
When
we judge or evaluate what it is
compared to something worse, we feel
better
about what it is.
I am not saying
that we would sign up for it, okay? Oh, pick me.
I want that. No, we're simply changing our
position. Let me pause there
long enough to talk about
a word that gets thrown around a lot, and that word is
attitude. In fact, I'm just
outlining a series of videos that are gonna go up on YouTube
soon on positive attitude because it's not how you
feel. Your attitude is not how you feel.
Your attitude creates how you feel.
Did you hear the distinction?
Attitude is position.
And one of the ways I learned this was through my son, who is a
pilot. It's an aviation term,
attitude. And
the first time I heard this, I think I may have even corrected him.
I'm, "Oh, oh, you mean altitude, I'm
sure," right? Because, like, I know.
I'm a psychologist. No,
attitude. The altitude indicator in the cockpit is this
little dial that just shows you a number.
The attitude indicator is
right there. It's fr- it was on both sides.
I was up in a small plane with him. Two screens, and the
attitude indicator is very prominent there.
Attitude means, in aviation, the position
of the plane
relative to the ground or the horizon.
So you can have a nose-up position or you can have a nose-down
position.
Can you see
that a nose-down attitude is heading into the hard
stuff?
Make a note of that somewhere. A nose-up attitude
can give you altitude
if you've got enough thrust and lift.
And my son told me when we're up there flying,
he was flying, I was a passenger, and he said, "If you ever get in
trouble up here, you check your attitude first."
That's rich.
Check your attitude
first
because attitude doesn't tell you where you are.
Attitude tells you where you're going.
And in a similar way, attitude is not how you feel.
Attitude is your position
relative to what it is.
Now, I hope some lights are going on.
Are some lights going on for you?
Your position
determines your emotional
energy.
Okay, remember what we're doing here.
This is the emotional freedom challenge.
How about we stop getting hijacked by our emotions
and we start connecting to where they're even coming
from? This is what creates your emotions,
your feelings, your emotional energy.
Your emotional energy determines how you show up, and
there's another part to the model that I'm gonna share with you, and we'll deep
dive into it tomorrow. The emotional energy determines
how you show up. How you show up creates your
results. You tracking
this?
So emotional freedom
is realizing first and foremost
that we are judging our what
it is.
We are. We can't turn it off. I invite you to see it.
I'm not telling you to stop judging or evaluating.
I'm telling you you can't
because of how your brain's designed.
It's part of your divine design. Stop beating yourself up because
you're judging. Just notice that you are.
Now, what position
are you going to take? Now, here's-- And
I'm seeing light bulbs going on in, in our VIP group.
People are connecting with this. Yes.
Yes, yes, yes. Here's-An
assumption
and I invite you to check it out to see if it's true.
Please don't take my word for this
Run it through your own filters, see if it's true.
You ready? Here is the assumption.
What it is-- There's two actually.
What it is
is all you've got.
I'll just let that land.
I'm not saying it's all you could have. We're getting to that.
I'm saying it's all you've got. By
definition, it's all you got.
Okay. Second, are you, are we okay with that one?
I'm getting some thumbs up from the VIP folks. All right.
If we're okay with that, here's the second assumption.
What it is is
always... And my
editor, my amazing creative editor, Thomas Cantrell, tells
me, "Always avoid the word always, and never use the
word never."
I did it intentionally. What it is is always
between
better
and worse.
Is that true?
Because if that's-- I mean by your own judgment, which you can't
turn off.
If that's true, then what it is,
no matter what it is,
no matter how bad things seem
in the middle of your bankruptcy or your divorce or your
diagnosis or whatever your what it is
is,
no matter how bad things seem,
it could always
be worse. Is that true?
We have this tendency as humans,
I call it the special case syndrome, okay, where we can see, oh
yeah, that's probably true, but I'm a special
case. My circumstances are
extraordinary,
right? Just I invite you to notice it 'cause I was
there. I was stuck in this special case syndrome.
I'm going through the bankruptcy, and I'm like, "Well, this shouldn't be happening
to me."
Right? I mean, we're not a special case.
An extreme does not equal extraordinary.
So I invite you to notice
that it could always be worse. Okay?
And is that true the other direction?
Like, no matter how good things seem,
it could always be better,
right? Just think of your bank account.
Oh, yeah, it could be
better even though you're in the top ten percent of the world's
wealthy. How cool is
that? Th- arguably. Okay?
So check it out. It is what it is. What it is is all
you've got. It could always be better or worse.
You don't always get to choose what it is.
And you've probably been on the planet long enough to know
that that's true, right? Sometimes it just lands in your lap,
the diagnosis, the, the bombshell
that goes off at work or in your key relationships.
You don't always get to choose that. Sometimes it just lands in your lap.
What do you get to choose?
Your position
relative to what it is. Okay. Now, today's
challenge task is going to put you in position
to make a powerful shift here and invite your amazing mind
to do this a little differently than it has in the past.
But I'm gonna pause that because I wanna round out the model
for you, and we will do a deep dive into the top half of
this model tomorrow, okay? Because we got
five days on this challenge.
Um, what we do,
what we do here in evaluation mode
matters, and it matters a whole
lot.
So,
I like to think
of this as the currency
that we take to the creation game. Okay?
We're not gonna be able to turn off evaluation.
It's just... it's going to roll. And this is
usually where I give the little challenge.
But I'm gonna pause for the challenge 'cause I wanna round out the model for you
first. The other thing that we can't turn
off is
creation.
And creation has nothing to do with what it is.
It has everything to do with what is to
be,
and that doesn't exist yet. We haven't created it
yet. So
the energy that we come up with in
evaluation mode is what we take to the
creation game.
Keep that in mind. It's almost like if you think of it as currency, I'm
gonna go buy something that is to be in the future,
okay? It doesn't exist yet. We haven't created it yet.
Well, what kind of currency do you wanna take with you?
Do you wanna take some of that positive currency?
Do you wanna take some of that negative currency?
Now,
what are we gonna create? What if I were to give you
a challenge right n- well, this isn't part of the daily challenges,
but what if I were to just invite you to take the
next, let me look at my clock, ten minutes.
What if we were to take ten minutes
and just use our creative
power-To and our the-- all those
creative juices, any resources we can bring into our
grasp to somehow in ten minutes
make your life worse.
Now, before you jump up to do that, notice that you chuckled
a little, didn't you? Yes
because you would never do that on purpose.
You would never do that on pur- Look, look how quickly your amazing brain
came up with half a dozen ways to pull that off.
And it wouldn't even take ten minutes, would it?
No. How cool is
that? Uh, th-and I mean how
cool is it that your brain can come up with
half a dozen ways to make your life
worse? This is good news. If
you notice that you can make
messes.
All right. And this is where I lose people sometimes.
They go, "How is that good news, Dr. Paul?
The messes?"
Because
if you can make a mess,
then you can make,
and that's good news.
Now, what are we gonna make?
You make sure you're here tomorrow because we're diving into the
six part creation process tomorrow.
There's a formula for how you get to go make
what's coming. I invite you today simply to notice
that you don't know. You don't know.
How you doing next week?
You don't know. Now, this is a very positive
bunch that we've put together here in the Emotional Freedom
Challenge. You guys are some of the most positive thinkers on the
planet,
but you don't know. You don't
know.
What I'm inviting you to see next is that you have
predictions. Even if you would answer
that, you know, how you doing next week? And you're like, "Oh, I'm doing great, Dr.
Paul." Okay,
that's a prediction. That's a guess.
You don't know. You've got something to do with
it. Please don't forget that part, okay?
And that's what we're getting into tomorrow.
But you don't know, so all you can do is
imagine. For now, I invite you
to connect with
the emotional energy,
the emotional energy
of that prediction. Okay?
Which is totally imaginary. We use our amazing
mind to imagine
what is coming,
and even though we don't know, we've got all these predictions.
Notice that you'll sometimes, you'll sometimes go
here. Oh, it's gonna be so hard to
whatever, right? You don't know. You're guessing.
Or, oh, that's gonna be really bad when...
You don't know. Or it's gonna be really exciting when
we-- You don't know.
You're predicting. So connect with the emotional energy of
that. What happens when we predict
or anticipate
or expect that what's coming
is even worse than what we've already got?
How do we feel?
This prediction
leads to
a negative emotional energy.
We call it anxiety.
Okay? I ask people, "Well, how does it feel when you think what's coming is
worse?" And they're like, "Bad." Yeah, bad.
Meaning anxiety, apprehension,
fear. That's the negative emotional
energy that we get into in creation mode when we predict
or anticipate or expect that what's coming is even worse than what we've already
got. I invite you to notice
that you don't know. And so notice that you are
predicting. I'm not even saying you should change
that. Well, that's up to you. That's
position. That's attitude. How do we
feel
when we imagine or predict or
expect or anticipate that what's coming
is even better
than what we've already got? How do we
feel? Woo-hoo.
I'll put a plus up here.
That
is hope.
Do you remember when I promised the deliverables here?
The deliverables
for this week, for this challenge.
Peace
in your mind and heart. This, my friends, is
peace.
Right here.
That is peace. And I just showed you how peace
is available no matter what it is, because what it is could
always be better or worse. Pick a position.
Your position is peace.
And it doesn't mean... Just look, circumstances are neutral.
This is one of the main tenets of coaching, and I train and
certify coaches too.Circumstances are
neutral. When I'm saying circumstances are neutral, I do not mean that they are
easy or painless. They may be very difficult
and painful. Neutral simply means here it is,
between better and worse.
That's what I mean by neutral. Pick a position.
That determines your emotional energy.
Well, what if we get into that negative evaluation?
This is called depression.
Now, I know I'm a professional psychologist, and I just used a
diagnostic term, but I mean it as a human
experience,
and when we continually get ourselves into a negative
evaluation of what it is, we experience a more clinical or
chronic or long-term kind of depression, and it
c- can become very debilitating. But in terms of the
emotional energy, we get to choose peace
or depression. What about in creation
mode? This, when we anticipate that there are
worse things on the way, this is
anxiety.
What's on the other side of anxiety?
Hope.
I was not messing around
when I told you the deliverables for this week, which are
within reach, on demand, as soon as you learn
how to operate the equipment of your own
mind,
and either we drive our thoughts, or our thoughts drive us.
We got a little problem, however, and that's why we're gonna do the challenge
tasks, okay? And I'm about ready to deliver
today's challenge tasks. Just hang on for a sec.
The deliverable
is peace in your mind and heart regardless of your
circumstances. I've just shown you how that's possible,
and hope for better things to come.
What about the confidence? We're gonna get to that later in the week.
All right? That's actually a strategic side effect
when you start to master this. Are
you in? Are you with me?
Positivity wasn't the plan, and you see
a nicer version of this right here.
I'll tell you how you can get connected to that. Don't worry about that.
Just take your notes for today. Positivity wasn't the
plan.
It was the lifeline.
Come back
to the, to the steering wheel with me, okay? I'm driving again.
Now, this is
just a few months ago. All right? So we don't need to go back clear to the
bankruptcy when I was in that dark, depressed state when life
broke the psychologist. Sometimes the doctor has to be the
patient to learn whatever is needed to
move forward and really fulfill my purpose.
Okay?
We're back in the, in the car. This time it's the
SUV, and I've got
another passenger in the back.
I like to call him Ezzy. He likes to call me
Grampy. And we're driving just up here in the, in
the foothills around my office here in U- beautiful Utah.
This was last fall. We're driving around, and we pass a
raccoon on the road, and I'm having a little chat with Ezzy.
I've got him dialed in right here on the re- rearview mirror, and Ezzy
in the backseat sees the raccoon, and I saw it too
as we drove past it.
And I hear this cute little voice in the backseat.
"Hey, Grampy?" "Yeah, Ezzy?"
"What's that?"
"Well, Ezzy, that's a, that's a raccoon, but it
got hit by a car, and it's dead." I
wasn't sure how that was gonna land. I mean, he's three, right?
And it seemed... he seemed to do okay with that.
Probably a half mile down the road I hear that cute little voice again.
"Hey, Grampy?" "Yeah,
Ezzy?" "Grampy, can we go find a
raccoon
that's not so dead?"
How cute is that?
So adorable
and profound
because think about it. Positivity
saved me.
This wasn't the plan. It was the lifeline.
I've been able to develop a model now that saves and enriches key
relationships and lives all over the
planet. My promise to you
is that as you lean in and do the challenges
associated with this challenge this week, the emotional freedom
challenge,
your life improves
in all those ways. Peace in your mind and heart, confidence in your
roles and relationships, and hope for better things to come.
That is my promise to you. But that's the
selfish part
because positivity saved me.
Now I can provide a Grampy
for Ezra
and seven other grandkids and counting
that's not so dead.
Who do you have
who needs a version of you
that's not so
dead?This is
where it gets really powerful.
All right.
Ready for the challenge task?
Here's the challenge task for today, and I'll post these in the Facebook group so
that you'll have a little running tally of what the challenge tasks are.
Oh, and by the way, I've had a lot of questions.
"Can I get the recording? I've got to work during that time," or, "Well, I'm not
available on Thursday," or whatever, okay? Yes.
That's why the VIP option is available.
You'll get all the recordings of these general sessions, plus
the Q&A that's gonna start up in just a few minutes at the end of
every day. You can still get into that.
Go to The Emotional Freedom Challenge.
Spell it out with a T-H-E-E-M-O... the whole thing.
TheEmotionalFreedomChallenge.com/getvip,
all one word, and that will give you access to all the
recordings ongoing. You can go back and review them to your heart's
content. You'll also get into the Q&A that we'll do every day after this, the
main session, and I'm inviting some special
guests into that Q&A. Some of you know I've got some really cool
friends, and so we're gonna have some fun in that,
VIP room. Um,
also, here in the Facebook group, I'm
going to leave this session up until we
start tomorrow's session, okay? So if you need to come
back and review it, it's gonna be there until we start the next
session. So I've gotcha. I've got you
here. Here's the challenge task for today.
And this is, um... Well, I don't even need to
open a new sheet. We're just gonna put it down here.
I call this challenge task, sometimes I call it
25/5.
The full name for it is called the Gratitude
Power Up. The Gratitude
Power Up, and I'll put this in the Facebook group too so that you'll have a
summary. Here's what it looks like.
For each of the next five days, starting today, this challenge
is all week, starting
today,
you make a gratitude list. You've done gratitude journaling, gratitude
lists before, I'm sure you have. We're going to do that for this
challenge task. 25 items
each day, all right? And don't repeat anything
on tomorrow's list that was on today's list.
Get yourself a little journal or something where you can keep track of this.
25 items each day, nothing repeated from day to day.
All right? Oh, does that seem like a lot?
'Cause it used to be 100 a day. Oh, see how your brain is
evaluating? Is that a lot? Is it not too mu- Depends on what you compare it
to. All right. So notice that your brain is still doing exactly
what we talked about. And by the way,
you are always right about how you
feel. Emotional freedom is not being free from
emotions, it's being free to
steer our own emotional experience more
intentionally, okay? And we, we're gonna feel whatever we're
gonna feel. I invite you to feel
everything, all right? And
you're always right about how you feel.
How you feel is 100% consistent with the way your mind is doing
this.
So I want you to know this.
That's what we're all about here, and that creates emotional freedom because then
you are free to choose,
and you'll feel stuff all the time. Welcome to the planet.
That's what you're supposed to do.
We're not gonna try to deny or, or ignore those.
Okay, now back to the, the Gratitude Power Up.
Most people, when they do a gratitude list,
they do it wrong.
Wrong, different.
Now, here's what I mean though.
Most people when they do a gratitude list, they get their list started, right?
And they're like, "Okay, family." Yes.
Oh, by the way, list them separately.
You got 25 each day, right?
Um, health,
rainbows, puppies, indoor plumbing,
right? These are all things that are really easy to be grateful for.
Anybody can be grateful for that. Eh, the equivalent would be you go
to the gym, all right? You go to the gym, you grab
a pen off of the reception desk, you do five reps
on each side,
put it down, come back tomorrow. You're gonna get stronger, right?
Not if you're lifting a pen.
Put on some weight.
Do you wanna work out
or do you wanna wimp out?
And most people wimp out on the gratitude.
So here's what powers it up. This is
important. This is the only thing that makes this more effective
than anything else I've ever seen to get you into a position of
peace faster. Make sure
that at least half of your list every day,
that's 13 if you're doing the math, at least half of your
list every day has to be about the hard
stuff. Something difficult,
frustrating, annoying, painful, kicking
your butt.
Like my bankruptcy, okay? Or
cancer or the divorce or whatever
your thing is. Everybody got something?'Cause if not,
we can get you something.
Or stick around, life will hand you something, drop it in your lap.
So you pick something that's painful.
And I'm not saying be grateful for the bankruptcy.
Remember, this is our story, my details.
I'm saying open it
up
and look inside of there. You rummage around
until you can find something that you are
sincerely grateful for. Put that on your list.
At least half of your list every day. Are we clear?
You know what I found in that bankruptcy?
I found relationships with people that I
still honor and respect deeply today.
I found business models that have allowed me
to create a whole new experience in my
profession. I found
the courage to write my first book.
I, I found all of that in there. Now,
am I grateful for the bankruptcy? Mm.
See that's kind of a hard ask, but when you open it up, you're gonna find
something, I guarantee. Ask your amazing mind to look for it.
Twenty-five five, who's in? That is
challenge number one
for our five d- and do it all five days. Okay?
items each day
for five days.
Remember,
peace in your mind and heart,
confidence in your roles and relationships, hope for better things to come
is available to you on demand. And when
you lean into this challenge task, you will
receive those outcomes, I
promise. And that's the selfish
part, okay? Because who do you have?
Who needs a version of you that's not so dead?
Let's get clear about why we're doing this.
All right, you guys. You got it? Okay, be back
here tomorrow. We will be starting up again VIP peopl-
peopl- sticker... I got peach and spearmint.
VIP people, stick around because we're going to launch
into the Q&A here in just about five
minutes. You can stay live
in the Zoom room. I'm going to go off camera and do, well,
what I would invite you to do for the next five minutes.
Just take a little break, move around.
Everybody on Facebook, we're back again tomorrow.
Jump in on challenge task number one.
Okay? And we'll see you right back here tomorrow.
All right, see you next time.
Okay, VIP people, it's just us here now.
We're going to stop the
recording.